README.md, before:

# Discord Ex - Discord Elixir Library

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/rmcafee/discord_ex.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/rmcafee/discord_ex)

Discord library for Elixir. I needed it and figured I'd share.

This library is useful for making calls and implementing a bot as well.

Please always use [Discord Developer Docs](https://discordapp.com/developers/docs) as a reference.

## Installation

  1. Add discord_ex to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`:

    ```elixir
    # From Hex
    def deps do
        [{:discord_ex, "~> 1.1.4"}]
    end
    ```

    ```elixir
    # From Github
    def deps do
      [{:discord_ex, git: "git@github.com:rmcafee/discord_ex.git", tag: "1.1.4"}]
    end
    ```

  2. Ensure discord_ex is started before your application:

    ```elixir
    def application do
      [applications: [:discord_ex]]
    end
    ```

  3. Look at the examples/echo_bot.ex file and you should honestly be
     good to go.

## Realtime and Bot Client Usage

So you want to create a bot huh? Easy peezy.

1) Create a bot with a default handler to handle any event:

```elixir
# Default Fallback Handler for all events!
# This way things don't blow up when you get an event you
# have not set up a handler for.

def handle_event({event, _payload}, state) do
  IO.puts "Received Event: #{event}"
  {:ok, state}
end
```

2) Setup an event handler to handle whatever event you want:

```elixir
def handle_event({:message_create, payload}, state) do
  # Your stuff happens here #
  {:ok, state}
end
```

3) Now to start your client it is as easy as:

```elixir
{:ok, bot_client } = DiscordEx.Client.start_link(%{
	token: <token>,
	handler: YourBotHandler
})
```
where `YourBotHandler` is name of your module which implements `handle_event`.

Alright you are done. Go forth and prosper!

**As a note your bot_client is a gen_server that will have state properties that contain:**

**:client_id** - your ClientID, so you don't have to constantly ask API for it

**:rest_client** - you can use this process to make calls without having to setup another rest client connection. So in your callback you can do this in your callback with ease:

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.User

User.current(state[:rest_client])
```


## Voice Client Usage

Keep in mind you will need to have [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org) and [dca-rs](https://github.com/nstafie/dca-rs) installed and accessible from /usr/local/bin to use the audio feature.

**For best results that include easy accessibility and efficient process management include voice information whenoy create your client.**

1) Create a connection with initial voice channel information and voice options:

```elixir
{:ok, client} = DiscordEx.Client.start_link(%{
	token: token,
	handler: YourHandler,
	voice: %{
		guild_id: <guild_id>,
		channel_id: <initial_channel_id>,
		self_deaf: false}
})
```

2) Now in your handler you can access the voice client in your handlers state.

* state[:voice_client]


**If you want to seperate your voice client from the general client:**

1) Create a connection like before. You can attach a bot handler if you wish.

```elixir
{:ok, client } = DiscordEx.Client.start_link(%{token: <token>})
```

2) Now create a voice client as you piggy back off the bot.

```elixir
{:ok, voice_client} = DiscordEx.Voice.Client.connect(client, %{
	guild_id: <guild_id>,
	channel_id: <channel_id>
})
```

**Now just pick the audio file you want to use and play it:**

```elixir
DiscordEx.Voice.Controller.play(voice_client,"/path/to/your/audio.wav", %{volumne: 128})
```

**If you want to stop it so you can play something else just stop it:**

```elixir
DiscordEx.Voice.Controller.stop(voice_client)
```

## REST Client Usage

The easy way to use discord resources is by doing the following.

```elixir
# alias the resource you wish to use to make it easy on yourself

alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.User

# Establish a connection
{:ok, connection} = User.login("<username>","<password>")

# Call on the resource and reap the results

User.guilds(connection)
```

If you like going the longer route and obtained your token already - you can use resources like this:

```elixir
# Create a connection
token = "<your-token>"
{:ok, conn} = DiscordEx.RestClient.start_link(%{token: token})

# Get to using the resource function for the rest client
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :get, "users/@me/channels")

# You can also user other method resources like 'post':
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :post, "users/@me/channels", %{recipient_id: <recipient_id>})
```

The 'resource' function makes it a lot easier to use the library. The following methods are supported.

```elixir
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :get, <url>)
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :post, <url>, <map-of-data>)
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :put, <url>, <map-of-data>)
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :patch, <url>, <map-of-data>)
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :delete, <url>)
```


** The following Resources are supported - you can look at their docs for examples and more information: **
  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Channel

Channel.bulk_delete_messages/3
Channel.create_invite/3
Channel.delete/2
Channel.delete_message/3
Channel.delete_permissions/3
Channel.edit_permissions/4
Channel.get/2
Channel.get_invites/2
Channel.messages/2
Channel.modify/3
Channel.send_file/3
Channel.send_message/3
Channel.trigger_typing/2
Channel.update_message/4
```

[channel-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Channel.html)

  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Guild

Guild.ban_member/4
Guild.bans/2
Guild.batch_modify_roles/3
Guild.begin_prune/3
Guild.channels/2
Guild.create/2
Guild.create_channel/3
Guild.create_empty_role/2
Guild.create_integration/3
Guild.delete/2
Guild.delete_integration/3
Guild.delete_role/3
Guild.embed/2
Guild.get/2
Guild.integrations/2
Guild.invites/2
Guild.kick_member/3
Guild.member/3
Guild.members/3
Guild.modify/3
Guild.modify_embed/2
Guild.modify_integration/4
Guild.modify_member/4
Guild.modify_role/4
Guild.prune_count/3
Guild.roles/2
Guild.sync_integration/3
Guild.unban_member/3
Guild.voice_regions/2
```

[guild-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Guild.html)

  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Image

Image.avatar_url/2
Image.icon_url/2
```

[image-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Image.html)

  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Invite

Invite.accept/2
Invite.delete/2
Invite.get/2
```

[invite-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Invite.html)

  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.User

User.connections/1
User.create_dm_channel/2
User.current/1
User.dm_channels/1
User.get/2
User.guilds/1
User.leave_guild/2
User.login/2
User.logout/1
User.modify/2
User.query/3
```

[user-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.User.html)

## TODOS

  * Would love more tests!
  * DRY up some similar behaviour.
  * Use it more and more - to see where developer usability can be made better

Commit message:

mention configurable dsa-rs path in README.md

README.md, after:

# Discord Ex - Discord Elixir Library

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/rmcafee/discord_ex.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/rmcafee/discord_ex)

Discord library for Elixir. I needed it and figured I'd share.

This library is useful for making calls and implementing a bot as well.

Please always use [Discord Developer Docs](https://discordapp.com/developers/docs) as a reference.

## Installation

  1. Add discord_ex to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`:

    ```elixir
    # From Hex
    def deps do
        [{:discord_ex, "~> 1.1.4"}]
    end
    ```

    ```elixir
    # From Github
    def deps do
      [{:discord_ex, git: "git@github.com:rmcafee/discord_ex.git", tag: "1.1.4"}]
    end
    ```

  2. Ensure discord_ex is started before your application:

    ```elixir
    def application do
      [applications: [:discord_ex]]
    end
    ```

  3. Look at the examples/echo_bot.ex file and you should honestly be
     good to go.

## Realtime and Bot Client Usage

So you want to create a bot huh? Easy peezy.

1) Create a bot with a default handler to handle any event:

```elixir
# Default Fallback Handler for all events!
# This way things don't blow up when you get an event you
# have not set up a handler for.

def handle_event({event, _payload}, state) do
  IO.puts "Received Event: #{event}"
  {:ok, state}
end
```

2) Setup an event handler to handle whatever event you want:

```elixir
def handle_event({:message_create, payload}, state) do
  # Your stuff happens here #
  {:ok, state}
end
```

3) Now to start your client it is as easy as:

```elixir
{:ok, bot_client } = DiscordEx.Client.start_link(%{
	token: <token>,
	handler: YourBotHandler
})
```
where `YourBotHandler` is name of your module which implements `handle_event`.

Alright you are done. Go forth and prosper!

**As a note your bot_client is a gen_server that will have state properties that contain:**

**:client_id** - your ClientID, so you don't have to constantly ask API for it

**:rest_client** - you can use this process to make calls without having to setup another rest client connection. So in your callback you can do this in your callback with ease:

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.User

User.current(state[:rest_client])
```


## Voice Client Usage

Keep in mind you will need to have [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org) and [dca-rs](https://github.com/nstafie/dca-rs) installed.

If your dca-rs is not installed as `/usr/local/bin/dca-rs` you can provide path
to it in your `config.exs` with:
```elixir
config :discord_ex, dca_rs_path: "/your/path/dca-rs"
```

**For best results that include easy accessibility and efficient process management include voice information whenoy create your client.**

1) Create a connection with initial voice channel information and voice options:

```elixir
{:ok, client} = DiscordEx.Client.start_link(%{
	token: token,
	handler: YourHandler,
	voice: %{
		guild_id: <guild_id>,
		channel_id: <initial_channel_id>,
		self_deaf: false}
})
```

2) Now in your handler you can access the voice client in your handlers state.

* state[:voice_client]


**If you want to seperate your voice client from the general client:**

1) Create a connection like before. You can attach a bot handler if you wish.

```elixir
{:ok, client } = DiscordEx.Client.start_link(%{token: <token>})
```

2) Now create a voice client as you piggy back off the bot.

```elixir
{:ok, voice_client} = DiscordEx.Voice.Client.connect(client, %{
	guild_id: <guild_id>,
	channel_id: <channel_id>
})
```

**Now just pick the audio file you want to use and play it:**

```elixir
DiscordEx.Voice.Controller.play(voice_client,"/path/to/your/audio.wav", %{volumne: 128})
```

**If you want to stop it so you can play something else just stop it:**

```elixir
DiscordEx.Voice.Controller.stop(voice_client)
```

## REST Client Usage

The easy way to use discord resources is by doing the following.

```elixir
# alias the resource you wish to use to make it easy on yourself

alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.User

# Establish a connection
{:ok, connection} = User.login("<username>","<password>")

# Call on the resource and reap the results

User.guilds(connection)
```

If you like going the longer route and obtained your token already - you can use resources like this:

```elixir
# Create a connection
token = "<your-token>"
{:ok, conn} = DiscordEx.RestClient.start_link(%{token: token})

# Get to using the resource function for the rest client
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :get, "users/@me/channels")

# You can also user other method resources like 'post':
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :post, "users/@me/channels", %{recipient_id: <recipient_id>})
```

The 'resource' function makes it a lot easier to use the library. The following methods are supported.

```elixir
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :get, <url>)
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :post, <url>, <map-of-data>)
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :put, <url>, <map-of-data>)
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :patch, <url>, <map-of-data>)
DiscordEx.RestClient.resource(conn, :delete, <url>)
```


** The following Resources are supported - you can look at their docs for examples and more information: **
  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Channel

Channel.bulk_delete_messages/3
Channel.create_invite/3
Channel.delete/2
Channel.delete_message/3
Channel.delete_permissions/3
Channel.edit_permissions/4
Channel.get/2
Channel.get_invites/2
Channel.messages/2
Channel.modify/3
Channel.send_file/3
Channel.send_message/3
Channel.trigger_typing/2
Channel.update_message/4
```

[channel-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Channel.html)

  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Guild

Guild.ban_member/4
Guild.bans/2
Guild.batch_modify_roles/3
Guild.begin_prune/3
Guild.channels/2
Guild.create/2
Guild.create_channel/3
Guild.create_empty_role/2
Guild.create_integration/3
Guild.delete/2
Guild.delete_integration/3
Guild.delete_role/3
Guild.embed/2
Guild.get/2
Guild.integrations/2
Guild.invites/2
Guild.kick_member/3
Guild.member/3
Guild.members/3
Guild.modify/3
Guild.modify_embed/2
Guild.modify_integration/4
Guild.modify_member/4
Guild.modify_role/4
Guild.prune_count/3
Guild.roles/2
Guild.sync_integration/3
Guild.unban_member/3
Guild.voice_regions/2
```

[guild-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Guild.html)

  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Image

Image.avatar_url/2
Image.icon_url/2
```

[image-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Image.html)

  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Invite

Invite.accept/2
Invite.delete/2
Invite.get/2
```

[invite-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.Invite.html)

  ----

```elixir
alias DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.User

User.connections/1
User.create_dm_channel/2
User.current/1
User.dm_channels/1
User.get/2
User.guilds/1
User.leave_guild/2
User.login/2
User.logout/1
User.modify/2
User.query/3
```

[user-resource-doc](DiscordEx.RestClient.Resources.User.html)

## TODOS

  * Would love more tests!
  * DRY up some similar behaviour.
  * Use it more and more - to see where developer usability can be made better
